Iam doc (#1350)
kubermatic/docs: content/kubermatic/main/architecture/concept/kkp-concepts/kkp-security/iam/_index.en.md

+++

> title = "Kubermatic Kubernetes Platform IAM"

Reviewer: I'm not sure I get why we're creating this page instead of updating the previous parent page for security in some way. This creates an even more complex nested structure to discover this topic. I don't think this is really accessible to people browsing the documentation:

![Screenshot 2023-02-16 at 08 49 05](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10295525/219301344-a9999e3e-cfa8-443c-b36d-e7996d04dd1d.png)

Reviewer 2: Yes, I also don't know what value it brings to just putting them into this parental category. But I am curious about @vgramer 's thoughts on that, maybe we miss something.

Reviewer 2: SEO and searchability is the key here for the word IAM. Might not be a bad solution though then.

Author: My understanding is that IAM regroups the authentification and authorization strategy, and those topics belong to `KKP security` section. Moreover the `securing system services`  is a related topic and I wanted to keep it close.

However, I agree it's too deep in the documentation structure. As @embik suggest, I can merge it with the  existing `Role based Access Control` page by:

-  renaming the `Role based Access Control` to `KKP IAM`(so it's searchable)
- add the content of the current `Role based Access Control` page under the authorization section 

WDYT ?

Author: I have  merged the page together to avoid a nested structure

date = 2023-02-07T12:15:02+02:00
weight = 20

+++

> KKP component (dashboard, user clusters ...) use OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol for authentication and RBAC for authorization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KKP components (dashboard, user clusters ...) use the OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol for authentication and RBAC for authorization.
```

In addition, I think we need to clarify this sentence and highlight that this RBAC is _not_ Kubernetes RBAC but a KKP-specific implementation, at least when it comes to interacting with KKP itself. I know this is explained later, but grouping the dashboard and user clusters is a bit misleading here to be honest.

portal to other identity providers through [connectors](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/). This lets Dex defer
authentication to [LDAP](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/ldap/) servers, [SAML](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/saml/)
providers, or established identity providers like [GitHub](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/github/), [Google](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/google/),
and [Microsoft](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/microsoft/).  Check out the [Dex documentation](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/)
for a list of available providers.

To configure Dex connectors edit `.dex.connectors` in the `values.yaml`

Example to set up Github connector:
```
dex:
    ingress:
    [...]
    connectors:
    - type: github
        id: github
        name: GitHub
        config:
        clientID: <client_id>
        clientSecret: <client_secret>
        redirectURI: https://<your-kkp.domain>/dex/callback
        orgs:
        - name: <your-github-org>
```

And apply the changes to the cluster:
**Helm 3**

```bash
helm --namespace oauth upgrade --install --wait --values /path/to/your/helm-values.yaml oauth charts/oauth/

> ```

Reviewer: This is already explained in the installation instructions (https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/main/installation/install-kkp-ce/#prepare-configuration), albeit in less detail. Should we really repeat it here? Does it offer new information that the user didn't have before?

Reviewer: _If_ we want to keep this section, I think we need to go into more detail. Like having dedicated sections for the individual connectors like GitHub or Google and explain what values you need, how to configure them, etc. The status quo IMHO is that we're not giving enough information to be really helpful on how to set this up.

Author: The idea was to make the most popular identity provider searchable. It feels a bit cumbersome to me to add them in the table of https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/main/installation/install-kkp-ce/#prepare-configuration.

Moreover in https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/main/architecture/role-based-access-control/groups-support/#considerations we mention that:

> Some connectors like the [Google connector](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/google/) require [special configuration](https://dexidp.io/docs/connectors/google/#fetching-groups-from-google) to be able to read group information

So I would like a provide a quick way to update the dex settings, but maybe it's more a development hack, and recommended method should go through the installer?

Concerning the fact that we don't give enough information, I am not sure we can do better without copying the official dex doc, and I would prefer to link to the official documentation. If we keep this section, I can add something like `To know how to set up fields, please refer to the dex documentation`

## Authorization
Authorization is managed at multiple levels to ensure users only have access to authorized resources. KKP has its own
authorization system, which is used to control access to resources within the platform, such as projects and clusters.
Administrators and project owners define and manage these policies and provide specific access control rules

> for users and groups. To learn more about KKP authorization system, check out [Role-based Access Control](./role-based-access-control/) chapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for users and groups. To learn more about KKP authorization system, check out [Role-based Access Control](./role-based-access-control/).
```

Reviewer: Either that or adding a `the` in front ^^
